```agda
module CAS706.A3 where

-- Library

import Relation.Binary.PropositionalEquality as Eq
open Eq using (_≡_; refl; cong; cong-app; sym; trans)
open Eq.≡-Reasoning
open import Data.Nat using (ℕ; zero; suc; _+_)
open import Data.Nat.Properties using (+-comm; +-suc; +-identityʳ)
open import Data.Product.Base using (_×_; _,_)
open import Data.Sum.Base using (_⊎_; inj₁; inj₂)
open import Data.Empty using (⊥)

open import Function.Bundles using (_↔_; mk↔; mk↔ₛ′; _⇔_; mk⇔)
open import Function using (_∘_)

```

These are the parts of the model solution.

```agda
open import CAS706.BinArith using (Bin; ⟨⟩; _O; _I; dbl; inc;
  tob; fromb; dblb)
```

The reason that we couldn't prove ∀ {n : Bin} → tob (fromb n) ≡ n
is because of the possibility of leading zeroes in a Bin value.
'⟨⟩ O O I' is such a value that gives a counterexample.
However, the theorem is true is true for n without leading zeroes.
We define a predicate to be able to state this in a theorem.
A value of type One n is evidence that n has a leading one.

```agda
data One : Bin → Set where
  ⟨⟩I : One (⟨⟩ I)
  _xO : ∀ {x : Bin} → One x → One (x O)
  _xI : ∀ {x : Bin} → One x → One (x I)

-- Here's a proof that '⟨⟩ I O O' has a leading one.

_ : One (⟨⟩ I O O)
_ = (⟨⟩I xO) xO
```

There is no value of type One (⟨⟩ O O I).
But we can't state and prove this yet, because we don't know
how to express negation. That comes in the Connectives chapter.

A canonical binary representation is either zero or has a leading one.

```agda
data Can : Bin → Set where
  [zero] : Can ⟨⟩
  [pos]  : ∀ {n : Bin} → One n → Can n

-- Some obvious examples:

_ : Can ⟨⟩
_ = [zero]

_ : Can (⟨⟩ I O)
_ = [pos] (⟨⟩I xO)
```

Exercises: three properties of canonicity.
The first is that the increment of a canonical number is canonical.

Most of the work is done in the following lemma.

Exercise: IncCanOne (15 points)
The increment of a canonical number has a leading one.

```agda
one-inc : ∀ {n : Bin} → Can n → One (inc n)
one-inc cn = {!!}
```

The first canonicity property is now an easy corollary.

Exercise: OneInc (10 points)

```agda
can-inc : ∀ {n : Bin} → Can n → Can (inc n)
can-inc cn = {!!}
```

The second canonicity property is that converting a unary number
to binary produces a canonical number.

Exercise: CanToB (10 points)

```agda
to-can : ∀ (n : ℕ) → Can (tob n)
to-can n = {!!}
```

The third canonicity property is that converting a canonical number
from binary and back to unary produces the same number.

This takes more work, and some helper lemmas from the Induction chapter.
You will need to discover which ones.

Exercise: OneDblbX0 (10 points)

This helper function relates binary double to the O constructor,
for numbers with a leading one.

```agda
dblb-O : ∀ {n : Bin} → One n → dblb n ≡ n O
dblb-O on = {!!}
```
We can now prove the third property for numbers with a leading one.

Exercise: OneToFrom (20 points)
```agda
one-to∘from : ∀ {n : Bin} → One n → tob (fromb n) ≡ n
one-to∘from on = {!!}
```

The third property is now an easy corollary.

Exercise: CanToFrom (10 points)

```agda
can-to∘from : ∀ {n : Bin} → Can n → tob (fromb n) ≡ n
can-to∘from cn = {!!}
```

Exercise: OneUnique (15 points)
Proofs of positivity are unique.

```agda
one-unique : ∀ {n : Bin} → (x y : One n) → x ≡ y
one-unique x y = {!!}
```

Exercise: CanUnique (10 point)
Proofs of canonicity are unique.

```agda
can-unique : ∀ {n : Bin} → (x y : Can n) → x ≡ y
can-unique x y = {!!}
```
Do we have an isomorphism between ℕ (unary) and canonical binary representations?
Can is not a set, but a family of sets, so it doesn't quite fit
into our framework for isomorphism.
But we can roll all the values into one set which is isomorphic to ℕ.

A CanR value wraps up a Bin and proof it has a canonical representation.

```agda
record CanR : Set where
  constructor mk-CanR
  field
    n : Bin
    cpf : Can n
```

We can show that there is an isomorphism between ℕ and CanR.

Exercise: Rewrap (10 points)
This helper will be useful.

```agda
rewrap : ∀ {m n : Bin} → (x : Can m) → (y : Can n) → m ≡ n → mk-CanR m x ≡ mk-CanR n y
rewrap = {!!}
```

Exercise: IsoNCanR (15 points)
```agda
iso-ℕ-CanR : ℕ ↔ CanR
iso-ℕ-CanR = {!!}
```

Can we get an isomorphism between ℕ and some binary encoding,
without the awkwardness of non-canonical values?
Yes: we use digits 1 and 2, instead of 0 and 1 (multiplier/base is still 2).
This is known as bijective binary numbering.
The counting sequence goes <empty>, 1, 2, 11, 12, 21, 22, 111...

```agda
data Bij-ℕ : Set where
  bits : Bij-ℕ
  _x1 : Bij-ℕ → Bij-ℕ
  _x2 : Bij-ℕ → Bij-ℕ

```
There is an isomorphism between ℕ and Bij-ℕ.
The proof largely follows the outline of what we did above,
and is left as an optional (bonus) exercise.

** Below are exercises to do with the connectives (and isomorphisms)

You are likely better off using mk↔ and/or mk↔ₛ′ rather than
other means (such as co-patterns). If you want to use the latter, then
you should import more from `Function.Bundles`.

Exercise: IffIsoIfOnlyIf (10 points)
Show A ⇔ B is isomorphic to (A → B) × (B → A).

```agda
iff-iso-if-onlyif : ∀ {A B : Set} → (A ⇔ B) ↔ ((A → B) × (B → A))
iff-iso-if-onlyif = {!!}
```

Personally, I much prefer to define the functions that are part of
the next 4 exercises separately, and then use them in the exercises.
(This is also how it is done in stdlib, as well as in the code
accompanying my ESOP 2016 paper.)

Exercise: SumCommIso (10 point)
Sum is commutative up to isomorphism.

```agda
⊎-comm : ∀ {A B : Set} → (A ⊎ B) ↔ (B ⊎ A)
⊎-comm = {!!}
```

Exercise: SumAssocIso (10 point)
Sum is associative up to isomorphism.

```agda
⊎-assoc : ∀ {A B C : Set} → ((A ⊎ B) ⊎ C) ↔ (A ⊎ (B ⊎ C))
⊎-assoc = {!!}
```

Exercise: EmptyLeftIdSumIso (10 point)
Empty is the left unit of sum up to isomorphism.

```agda
⊎-identityˡ : ∀ {A : Set} → (⊥ ⊎ A) ↔ A
⊎-identityˡ = {!!}
```

Exercise: EmptyRightIdSumIso (10 point)
Empty is the right unit of sum up to isomorphism.

```agda
⊎-identityʳ : ∀ {A : Set} → (A ⊎ ⊥) ↔ A
⊎-identityʳ {A} = {!!}
```
